I'm Martin Howitt, I'm the managing director of
Grantham Manufacturing Ltd.
This is a business which was started
in the late Sixties by my father,
so I moved into it in the late Seventies
as the second generation.
Moved it from being a gasket
making business to the business
that it sort of evolved into today,
which is specialist paper converting.
About 2014...
we had a factory fire,
and that destroyed all of our factory
and all of our manufacturing capability.
So when the fire took place, you know,
you're faced with a heck of a challenge,
you either fall over and run away from it
or you get stuck into it,
and you take on a vast challenge
of rebuilding your business swiftly.
We came up with a dream of how we wanted
the factory to look going forward
in order that we can future-proof ourselves,
but that was going to take
a big investment at that time
and a business looks rather critical
when everything's burnt down.
You need to have somebody that's going to
have a lot of faith in your business plan,
and I'm pleased to say that the
relationship manager we've got with Barclays
bought into my dream as to how
we were going to rebuild this business.
In designing and building a new factory
we wanted to make sure we built features
into that to reduce its
carbon impact, so we applied for
and we got permission to put 272 solar panels
on the brand new roof that we were building.
We're now in a situation
where we are generating
over a period of 12 months,
58% of our own electricity.
We also harvest our rainwater.
We've got a 10,000 litre
tank in the ground.
So all the rainwater
is gathered, filtered, and we can use that
in our processes.
In addition, we've got a ground source heating system.
We've got boreholes in the ground,
so the system is pre-heated
by the temperature of the earth,
which is generally ten degrees,
and that is what's responsible
for maintaining the temperature
in the factory.
More recently, we've invested
in a specially designed for us,
water cooled air compressor.
I'm excited to be a part
of seeing the third generation
come into this business.
My two sons have joined
and brought their own skills base to it
in order they can take
the business plan forward
and into the future.
So the business now carries on
trying to work at the sustainability model
that we've got, be it
from sources of raw materials
or all the features
we built into this factory
and I'm very passionate
that that's one of the legacies
that I want to leave
behind in this business
for the next generation to build on.